This class is very important, and
I have an important challenge and it
is that, really, I would like to
convince you that going out to
the market with a minimum viable
product has very many benefits compared
to doing it in the traditional way.
What happens is that the minimum
viable product is, despite being a
word that everyone reads daily, very
few people understand it well and much
less people are still able to apply
it or when you see in the fabric
of creating an innovative project,
because it is difficult to apply
the rajatabla, the philosophy read
and go out to the market with
a minimum viable product because,
as we will see, there are
many resistances, especially
mental resistances that we
have to overcome.
Let us start by looking at the
process of traditional product development.
The first thing he does is,
in a startup he is the founder,
what he does is conceptualize,
shape that product, that
service, what are the
functionalities, specifications,
what is what he has to do,
how he has to behave, etc.
And from there, some requirements,
these specifications,
are passed to the technical
equipment, which can be programmers
or engineers, depending
on the type of product.
This is the longest phase, which usually
lasts a few months and is also the phase
that consumes the most money.
Before the product is released,
a beta testing is
carried out.
What happens is that the product is
almost finished, that is, you
have already spent the money and a
lot of time has passed.
And what you do is, before you
launch it, well, because it is validated
in a large company with the
different departments, or you make
a focus group, you have some feedback
from customers, although it is
already too late.
But it’s also a feedback that
doesn’t usually work.
And finally, what is done is to
throw it.
It is important that you take into
account, because if you have seen yourself
in the situation it has gone by safe and if
it will not happen to you, and it is
that there is a lot of tendency to make
the product more complex.
As it develops, well, because
we all get ideas, no, because
I’m going to put this new functionality
in, it would be good if
I did this, no, it should
be a little smaller, a
little bigger, etc.
So what we do is to make it more
and more complex, more time,
more money, and so on.
This also extends the
launch date.
But well, the main problem here, seeing
that process, is that this process
has already been born wrong.
Why is?
Because the first stage, which
is when we have shaped that product,
we have made a lot of
mistakes, because to start with
we are giving of course that we
know what the product we have
to build, which is a huge mistake,
because we are assuming that
we know how the customer
will behave.
So the traditional product
development process is already
about to fail.
What is the Instartup?
As you know, well, because it
proposes a different process in
which product development is
also very different and we call
it the minimum viable product.
As you know we start from a
hypothesis and what we do is instead
of giving of course all the product
specifications, what we do is to
go out to the market with the least
viable product and with the simplest
possible, well, and we will go
obtaining information
and we will go building
and we will get a perfect product,
but we still do not know
what it is.
So what is the minimum viable
product?
It is the minimum version of your
product, the minimum, with the least
possible functionality, the less, the
better, but that allows you to learn,
that allows you to advance in
that process.
Therefore, there is also implicit
what must be feasible.
What is it mean to be viable?
Well, then to have a certain
value so that customers are willing
to interact with him, to pay
for him, etc.
Because otherwise you can’t learn anything,
if you have a product that doesn’t
bring any value to anyone, you can’
t learn anything.
It is very important that you always
keep in mind, that you never forget,
during the time you are developing
the product, that less
is more.
As I said, we all have a
tendency to become more
and more complex.
The simpler, the better.
Per this picture is quite illustrative
of what can be a minimum
viable product.
What is your vision?
Well, because your view is the
dollar of the right.
However, what you do is, as it will
take you time and money to develop
that final product, what you
do is go to the market with a
product that is viable, because
people want to buy it.
Maybe it’s not what you have
in your head yet, but let’s
see why.
You will start getting feedback from
those customers and will allow you
to build the product.
And in the end, maybe your product is
the one you had in your head or not.
Let’s see what are the clear
benefits of coming out to the
market with a minimum viable product.
The first, which you already know, is
that it allows us to quickly
validate the hypotheses.
The possibilities of our business model.
We have seen this with the Zappos case.
Zappos did what it did is go
out to the market in the first
week, since the founder was
minded of the idea, to validate
that customers were willing to
buy shoes in an e-commerce.
And if you remember, what Zappos
did was create a very simple website,
but he hadn’t stocked
shoes.
What he did was put photos of the
shoes that were in other stores, and
when he had an order, because he went
to the store, he bought it and delivered
it to the customer.
This allowed him to validate the hypothesis.
It also allowed, another that is
the second of the benefits, is to
have immediate contact with customers.
And at first what you have is
contact with early adopters,
which are those customers who
are really waiting for a proposal
like yours and who help you
build the product.
It is important.
You don’t know everything you
learn when you have, from
the moment you have contact with
customers.
You may have been months in
the office planning and thinking
things, but it’s the reality with
customers when you start learning
what they want, how they use
your product, helps you evolve
it, etc.
Groupon left the market with a very
clear strategy of minimum viable
product.
What he did was a very simple
WordPress blog, and when you
bought by email with a pdf and
spent hours a day doing it.
Something super inefficient.
What happens is that it allowed him
to get out very quickly, it allowed
him to start having, since that,
to validate the hypotheses and to
have contact with customers from the
first day.
Another of the clearest benefits
of the minimum viable product is
that we will not waste time and
money building a product that
you think is perfect, but that
in the bottom, customers
do not value it.
The IMV is a success
story by Eric Rice,
the author of Lean Startup.
And he tells us that he has a
company that has some avatars, I
don’t know exactly how it works,
and he, well, when they
were initially developing the
product, had no idea that the avatars
would move as we put the example
of the sims, that is, that they
could move along the screen,
that they could, that they could
walk through the screen.
But of course, that took them, that
development would cost them
a lot of time and a lot of money.
So what they did is a minimum
viable development and is that
the client could, the user could
click, click on the screen
site where he wanted his avatar
to move and the avatar
directly teleported.
I didn’t have to be walking.
Imagine what this savings is.
Well, Eric Rice tells us that he
really gave him a lot, that gave
him shame and feared to go out to
do such a development, which seemed
to him very cuddly.
It turned out that customers
loved it.
That surprised them very much because
they expected to be told that it was
very cuddly, that they wanted the more
expensive development, etc.
Well, it turns out that the
customers loved it.
Thus, a lot of time
and money were saved.
And this happens many times.
You give of course something, you give
of course that you have to create a
product that is, for I don’t know,
wonderful, but what is wonderful
for you and it turns out that reality
is another.
And it turns out that with a minimum
of a viable product, it is more than
viable and customers even prefer it.
Look at the savings that this means.
Another benefit is that going
to the market in a week instead
of a year allows you to learn
much faster than others.
And we are increasingly in a more
competitive environment where the
faster you go, the much better.
So, that learning process,
if you do it much faster than
others, I guarantee you will
end up having a competitive
advantage.
Well, and finally, the minimum
viable product will allow
you to build the perfect product.
But the perfect product is not the
product you have in your head
the first day.
Because that product is very likely that
customers will not have the
same opinion as you.
The perfect product will
help us build customers.
We will come out with the
minimum viable product and
from the feedback we will have
from customers, we will
build a project that will bring
more value.